



PROCON Working Group                                          C. Perkins
Internet-Draft                                     University of Glasgow
Intended status: Informational                               3 July 2026
Expires: 4 January 2027


  Consistent Phrasing for Working Group Adoption and Last Call Notices
                draft-perkins-adoption-last-call-latest

Abstract

   This memo suggests that the IETF would benefit if working group
   chairs used consistent phrasing, that has been checked for accuracy
   and conformance with the IETF process documents, for working group
   adoption and working group last call actions.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   The latest revision of this draft can be found at
   https://csperkins.github.io/draft-perkins-adoption-last-call/draft-
   perkins-adoption-last-call.html.  Status information for this
   document may be found at https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-
   perkins-adoption-last-call/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/csperkins/draft-perkins-adoption-last-call.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 4 January 2027.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Consistent Phrasing for Adoption and Last Call Notices
   3.  Security Considerations
   4.  IANA Considerations
   5.  Normative References
   Acknowledgments
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   There are two important steps in the life-cycle of a draft that is
   intended for publication as an RFC on the IETF stream: adoption by a
   working group and working group last call.

   Working group adoption is the process whereby a working group decides
   to take ownership of a draft and work further on the topic.  Adoption
   does not guarantee eventual publication of the draft as an RFC, but
   rather indicates that the working group believes the draft is an
   appropriate starting point for discuss.  Working group adoption is
   discussed in detail in [RFC7221].

   Working group last call, described in Section 7.4 of [RFC2418], is
   the final review step in the working group process, before a draft is
   submitted to the IESG for consideration.

   Working group adoption and last call are formal steps in the IETF
   process.  They have implications around IPR disclosure and ownership
   of the draft.  As such, it is important that both the draft authors
   and the working group participants clearly understand what is meant
   by draft adoption and last call, and what are the implications of
   these actions for the draft in question.

   To date, however, working group chairs have tended to use ad-hoc and
   phrasing for working group adoption call and working group last call
   announcements, and to indicate the results of such calls, with
   different phrasing being used for different drafts and in different
   working groups.  This is problematic, because such phrasing:

   *  might not clearly and accurately describe the process implications
      of the action (adoption, last call) being undertaken, and might
      not link to the relevant process documents for details;

   *  might not clearly describe the IPR implications of the action; and

   *  might not clearly describe how decisions are made, how responses
      should be submitted, deadlines, etc.

   It is suggested that the operation of the IETF will be improved if
   working group chairs use consistent phrasing, that has been
   previously agreed to accurately describe the process they are
   following and the implications of that process, to describe their
   activities.

   The IESG recently partially recognised this issue, and requested that
   automated emails be added, as an option, to the Datatracker to
   describe the IPR implications of working group adoption and last
   call, but the suggested wording does not address the other concerns.

2.  Consistent Phrasing for Adoption and Last Call Notices

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in BCP
   14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

   The IETF needs to define consistent phrasing that working group
   chairs SHOULD use when making working group adoption calls and
   working last call announcements.  This phrasing needs to be checked
   for consistency with the relevant RFCs and must indicate the action
   being taken and the possible outcomes of that action, what response
   is expected from participants, how that response should be made, the
   deadline for responses, and the authority under which the action is
   taken (with links to relevant process documents).

   The IETF also needs to define consistent phrasing that working group
   chairs SHOULD use when concluding a call for adoption or working
   group last call.

   For a call for adoption, that phrasing must be clear whether the
   decision was to adopt the document in question, whether the decision
   was to decline to adopt the document (and, if so, under what
   conditions, if any, that decision may be revisited), or whether the
   decision was deferred (and, if so, why it was not possible to make a
   decision and what must happen before a decision can be made).

   For a working group last call, it must be clear whether the decision
   was to forward the document to the IESG for consideration as-is,
   whether the decision was to conditionally forward the document to the
   IESG for consideration once some set of conditions have been met;
   whether the decision was to not sent the document to the IESG (and,
   if so, under what conditions the decision might be revisited); or
   whether the last call is being extended (and if so, for what reason,
   and until what deadline).

   For both adoption and last call, the phrasing must be clear about
   what decision was made, why that decision was made and under what
   authority and following what process, what are the next steps to be
   taken, and what to do if there is disagreement.

   This memo does not attempt to define such consistent wording at this
   time.  Rather, it is a call for input on whether such wording is a
   good idea in principle.  If there is such agreement, appropriate
   phrasing can be prepared, and checked with the IESG and Counsel, and
   confirmed by IETF consensus.

3.  Security Considerations

   This document has no direct implications for Internet security.

4.  IANA Considerations

   This document has no IANA actions.

5.  Normative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC2418]  Bradner, S., "IETF Working Group Guidelines and
              Procedures", BCP 25, RFC 2418, DOI 10.17487/RFC2418,
              September 1998, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2418>.

   [RFC7221]  Farrel, A. and D. Crocker, Ed., "Handling of Internet-
              Drafts by IETF Working Groups", RFC 7221,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC7221, April 2014,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7221>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

Acknowledgments

   TODO acknowledge.

Author's Address

   Colin Perkins
   University of Glasgow
   Email: csp@csperkins.org
